[2.10] Executors guide update (#4043)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-executors-explained.md

---
title: "Apache Airflow® Executors"
sidebar_label: "Executors"
description: "An introduction to Apache Airflow® Executors"
id: airflow-executors-explained
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Executors are a configuration property of the [scheduler process](airflow-components.md) of every [Apache Airflow®](https://airflow.apache.org) environment. The executor you choose for a task determines where and how a task is run. Different pre-configured executors are available for different use cases, and there is the option to define a [custom executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/index.html). Airflow 2.10 introduced the [experimental Multiple executor configuration](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/index.html#using-multiple-executors-concurrently) feature, allowing you to specify executors for individual tasks without needing to use pre-configured combined executor options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executors are a configuration property of the [scheduler process](airflow-components.md) of every [Apache Airflow®](https://airflow.apache.org) environment. The executor you choose for a task determines where and how a task is run. You can choose from several pre-configured executors that are designed for different use cases, or you can define a [custom executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/index.html). Airflow 2.10 introduced the [experimental multiple executor configuration](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/index.html#using-multiple-executors-concurrently) feature, which allows you to specify executors for individual tasks without needing to use pre-configured combined executor options.
```

In this guide, you'll learn how to choose and configure executors in Airflow.

:::info

To learn more about how to adjust scaling parameters for task execution in Airflow, see [Scaling Airflow to optimize performance](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/learn/airflow-scaling-workers).

:::

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).
- Airflow components. See [Airflow components](airflow-components.md).

## Choosing an executor 

> There are several pre-configured executors in Airflow for local and production use cases. In production using either of the following executors is recommended:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several pre-configured executors in Airflow for local and production use cases. In production, Astronomer recommends using either of the following executors:
```

- **[KubernetesExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/kubernetes.html):** Calls the Kubernetes API to create a separate Kubernetes pod for each task to run, enabling users to pass in custom configurations for each of their tasks and use resources efficiently. The KubernetesExecutor is available as part of the [CNCF Kubernetes provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/versions/latest). This executor is ideal in the following scenarios: 

    - You have long running tasks that you don't want to be interrupted by code deploys or Airflow updates.
    - Your tasks require very specific resource configurations.
    - Your tasks run infrequently, and you don't want to incur worker resource costs when they aren't running.

> For local development, using the **[LocalExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/local.html)** is recommended. It executes tasks locally inside the scheduler process, not needing workers and it supports parallelism and hyperthreading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local development, Astronomer recommends using the **[LocalExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/local.html)**. It executes tasks locally inside the scheduler process and does not require workers. It supports parallelism and hyperthreading.
```

> There are two statically-coded hybrid executors, the [CeleryKubernetes Executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/celery_kubernetes.html) and the [LocalKubernetes Executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/local_kubernetes_executor.html), allowing you to use two different executors in the same Airflow environment in versions 2.9 and earlier. Note that as of Airflow 2.10, you can run [multiple executors concurrently](#run-multiple-executors-concurrently) without needing combined executor classes and using the statically-coded hybrid executors is [no longer recommended](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/index.html#statically-coded-hybrid-executors). 

Reviewer: I would pull the note about the statically-coded hybrid executors into a note box, and say they exist, but are not widely used or recommended.

Other available executors are the [SequentialExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/sequential.html), the [experimental AWS ECS Executor](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/executors/ecs-executor.html) and the [experimental AWS Batch Executor](http://apache-airflow-docs.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/executors/batch-executor.html).

Additionally, you can write and use your own [custom executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/index.html).

## Configure your executor on Astro

> Astro customers can choose and configure their executors when creating a deployment. See [Manage Airflow executors on Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/executors-overview) for more information. Astro supports the CeleryExecutor and the KubernetesExecutor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro users can choose and configure their executors when creating a deployment. See [Manage Airflow executors on Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/executors-overview) for more information. Astro supports the CeleryExecutor and the KubernetesExecutor.
```

> Astronomer's open-source local development environment, the [Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/overview), uses the LocalExecutor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer's open-source local development environment, the [Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/overview), uses the LocalExecutor by default.
```

> ## Configure your executor self-hosted Airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure your executor for self-hosted Airflow
```

When working with self-hosted Airflow solutions, you can set your executor using the [core.executor Airflow config variable](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#executor).

When running Airflow with the Astro CLI, set the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__EXECUTOR` in the `.env` file:

```text
AIRFLOW__CORE__EXECUTOR=LocalExecutor
```

> Note that when using self-hosted Airflow with production-level executors you will need to configure your own Celery or Kubernetes setup. For more information on available configuration parameters see the configuration references for the [CeleryExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-celery/stable/configurations-ref.html) and [KubernetesExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/configurations-ref.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when using self-hosted Airflow with executors appropriate for production, you will need to configure your own Celery or Kubernetes setup. For more information on available configuration parameters, see the configuration references for the [CeleryExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-celery/stable/configurations-ref.html) and [KubernetesExecutor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/configurations-ref.html). 
```

### Run multiple executors concurrently 

> In Airflow 2.10+ Airflow added the experimental feature of running a multi-executor configuration. When using multiple executors you need to provide the relevant classes to the [core.executor Airflow config variable](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#executor) as a comma separated string. You can provide short names for your executor classes after a `:` character:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Airflow 2.10+, you can run a multi-executor configuration. Note that this feature is experimental. When using multiple executors, you need to provide the relevant classes to the [core.executor Airflow config variable](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#executor) as a comma separated string. You can provide short names for your executor classes after a `:` character:
```

```text
[core]
executor = 'CeleryExecutor,KubernetesExecutor,my_custom_package.MyCustomExecutor:MyExecutor'
```

> The first executor in the list is the Airflow environments default executor. To assign a specific task to another executor from the list, set its `executor` parameter to the class name or short name of the executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first executor in the list is the default executor. To assign a specific task to another executor from the list, set its `executor` parameter to the class name or short name of the executor.
```
